---
title: "Using LUA Filters with pandoc"
date: 2020-06-28T15:59:20+08:00
draft: true
---

While testing the Markdown files generated by pandoc in Hugo, I realized I had some duplicate content that was making the individual posts very difficult to read. After careful reading of the pandoc Manual I discovered to my sadness that there was no built-in way to remove the content I did not want 😉. The only option then was to write pandoc filters. Now pandoc has libraries that allow you to write filters in pretty much any modern language but out of the box, it supports filters written in Lua. Which is a language I had (and still have) zero knowledge about. But with some intensive trawling of the pandoc mailing list and various GitHub repo's I was able to stitch together two filters.

### Filter 1 - Remove all Level 1 Headers
```lua
function Block (elem)
	if elem.level == 1 then
		return {} -- "empty list" == remove
	else
		return head
	end
end
```

### Filter 2 - Remove Level 3 Headers with the word "Tags" present
```lua
local looking_at_tags = false
local remove = {}

function Header (elem)
  if elem.level == 3 and elem.identifier == 'tags' then
	looking_at_tags = true
	return {}
  else
	looking_at_tags = false
  end
end

function Block (elem)
  if looking_at_tags then
	remove[#remove + 1] = elem
	return {}
  end
end
```

In order to run these filters, you can put them in the pandoc Data directory. The pandoc Data directory can be found by running `pandoc -V` and looking at the paths mentioned in the output. Once you've placed the filters there, you can invoke them as follows:
```shell
pandoc X:\path\to\source.md -f markdown --wrap=preserve --atx-headers --lua-filter=header-strip.lua --lua-filter=tags-strip.lua -t markdown_mmd+yaml_metadata_block -o X:\path\to\content\posts\target.md

```

It's important to note that pandoc processes filters in sequence so to avoid unexpected side-effects, make sure to specify them in the right order. Also, I think you cannot have multiple `function Block` elements in a single LUA filter but like I said I don't know anything about Lua.
